Title: Submachines

After attending a presentation about the QP state machine tool, we decided that
it would be helpful to allow for sub-state machines, which can not only improve
a machine's modularity but also guarantee the impossibility of undesirable
state changes, as well as allow the possibility of minor code reuse.

The proposed syntax follows:

M {
  _ [ ... ],
 *A [ ... ],
  B [ ... ],
  C [
    a --> A,
    b --> B,
    d ~(M')~> D
  ],
  D [ ... ],

  M' {
   *A' [ b --> B' ],
    B' [
       a --> A',
       d ~~>
    ],
    _  [ ... ]
  }
}

The key syntax additions are: 1) to permit state machine declarators as peers
to state declarators, 2) the ~(...)~> arrow operator (alt. syntax ~...~>),
which invokes a submachine, and 3) the ~~> arrow operator, which marks an
accepting state and a return to the proximate state of the supermachine.

The semantics allow for submachine access only from supermachines; no peer
access nor supermachine access is permitted.  A submachine is equivalent to a
transformer on its supermachine's type, so any cross-machine access would be
equivalent to a type error.  The submachine can only accept the events of its
supermachine, and can declare no additional events.  This makes the submachine
an isolated subgraph connected to the overall state graph, while restricting
the behavior inside.  As such, the submachine does not require additional RAM
to store its current state, as it can be stored as the supermachine's current
state.

There is a tradeoff with multi-use submachines.  Because of the deterministic
nature, while multiple source events can enter the same submachine, their
supermachine destination states must be stored somewhere.  There are two
alternative implementations: a word of RAM for each submachine (unneeded for a
single instance), or total code duplication for every use.  Both of these
preserve the semantics, so in general simpler is better - the tradeoff comes
from the use of CSR 8670, which has 1024 words of code for every word of RAM.
As such, from a resource tradeoff standpoint it actually makes more sense to
duplicate the code until more than 1024 words are used, at which point RAM
would be preferred.  As a data point, two example state machines consume the
following amount of resources:

160 code words for simplest (8 states x 7 events)
719 code words for largest (18 states x 20 events)

As such, the first could be used 6 times before it would make sense to use RAM
instead, whereas the second could be used twice before RAM would be better.
